We'll lure the Field Boss into the village.
W-Wait a second.
If we did that, the villagers—
That's our aim.
While the boss is occupied with killing NPCs,
we'll take it down.
NPCs aren't just bits of data like trees or rocks.
They're—
Alive?
Is that it?
There's nothing special about them.
Even if they're killed, they'll simply respawn.
I can't accept that logic.
I, Asuna, the Vice Commander of the Knights of Blood,
am assigned to lead this mission.
You will obey my orders.
Yo.
Another quarrel, huh?
Agil.
Why do you two always end up arguing?
I guess we just think differently.
You can become strong.
So if someone trustworthy ever invites you to their guild, don't turn them down.
That's what I said,
but I never thought she'd join the strongest one
and become a floor-clearing demon.
I recognized my cowardly past
mitometeta okubyou na kako
Remaining ignorant, I cowered in fear
wakaranai mama ni kowagateta
My other self reflects reality onto the present
ushiro no jibun ga genjitsu wo ima ni utsusu
This world, where I envisioned countless skies,
ikutsu mo no sora wo kaita koko wa kitto
will surely drive my frail heart insane.
hakanai kokoro midashite
In my dreams, I soared in the skies,
yume de takaku tonda karada wa
shaking off any anxieties that clung to me
donna fuan matottemo furiharatteku
A subconscious thought expands outward
nemuru chiisa na omoi hirogaridashite
Notice my weakness and stay by me
kizuku yowai watashi kimi ga ireba
so I can confidently accept this dark world
kurai sekai tsuyoku ireta
I continue to dream for all of eternity
nagai yume miru kokoro wa sou eien de
I wanna always be with you.
I'll give you everything I have.
What are you doing?
Oh,
it's just you.
The others are frantically
working to clear the dungeon,
so why are you lazing around napping?
Being a solo player doesn't excuse you from—
The weather today is the nicest possible
during the nicest season in Aincrad.
It'd be a waste to spend a day like this in a dungeon.
Don't you get it?
Every day that passes here
is a day lost to us in the real world.
But right now, we're living in the world of Aincrad.
See?
The sun and wind are so relaxing.
Really?
It doesn't seem that different from usual.
If you laid down for a bit, you'd understand.
Well, would you look at that?
Sleeping in broad daylight?
They're too laidback for their own good.
Honestly, who do they think they are?
I didn't expect her to listen to me...
Huh? Uh... wha...
Morning.
Sleep well?
One meal.
A meal!
I'll treat you to whatever you want.
Then we'll call it even, okay?
Isn't she Asuna from the Knights of Blood?
So she's the Flash...
Who's the guy in black?
Well, how should I say this...?
Thanks for today.
For watching over me.
Oh, no problem.
The towns are safe areas,
so there's no risk of being attacked or player-killed,
but it's different when you're asleep.
Yeah.
There's sleep-PKing, which takes advantage of the duel system.
Normally, duels are held to test one's strength.
But during one, damage can be taken, reducing HP,
even in a safe area.
You can challenge someone who's asleep,
and move their finger to make them accept the duel request.
Then you attack them until they die.
It's not unheard of.
So, um...
Thank you.
W-Well, uh...
Y-You're welcome.
Hurry and pull it out!
Stay down here and catch him.
Got it.
Hang on!
Damn...
The only way to die in a safe area
is to get killed during a duel.
Which means...
Everyone!
Look for a "Winner" duel notification!
There's nobody inside.
What's the meaning of this?
The most obvious explanation would be
that the murderer impaled the victim,
put the noose around his neck, and shoved him out the window.
Wouldn't you agree?
But a "Winner" notification was nowhere to be seen.
That's impossible.
Damaging someone in a safe area
is only possible during a du—
Either way, we can't ignore this incident.
Yeah.
If someone's found a way to PK even in safe areas,
then towns can't be considered secure anymore.
Agreed.
We'll have to leave the front lines,
but this takes precedence.
Well then, you'll have to assist me until this is resolved.
And just so we're clear, we won't have time for naps.
But you slept even longer than I did...
Excuse me.
Does anyone know exactly what happened earlier?
If you do, please tell us about it.
When I got here he was already...
Same here.
Sorry, I know you're going through some trauma.
What's your name?
U-Um... my name is Yolko.
By any chance, did that scream earlier come from you?
Y-Yes.
Earlier I...
came to have dinner with the man who was murdered.
His name was Caynz,
and he used to be in the same guild as me.
So when we got separated in the plaza,
I went to look for him and saw him hanging from the church window...
Did you see anyone else?
It was just for a moment,
but I thought I saw someone behind Caynz.
Did that person look familiar?
No...
Um... I hate to ask this,
but do you have any idea why someone would want to kill Caynz-san?
No...
I'm sorry
for having you escort me.
Don't worry about it.
Well then, we can continue our talk tomorrow, if that's fine with you.
Sure.
So, what now?
Let's go over what we know.
If we trace the spear's origins,
it could give us a lead.
We'll need to use the Appraisal skill then.
You don't...
have it leveled, do you?
Obviously not.
And neither do you.
Anyways,
can you stop addressing me so rudely?
O-O-Oh...
Then, uh...
How about "Miss"?
"Vice Commander-sama"?
"Flash-sama"?
Just call me Asuna.
R-Roger that.
So, about the Appraisal skill,
do you know anyone who could help us with it?
Hm...
I have a friend who's a blacksmith,
but she's really busy around this time, so we might have to wait a while.
I see.
Then let's go ask a merchant acquaintance of mine.
Thank you! Come again, sir.
Looks like
you're carrying out your greedy business as usual.
Oh, Kirito.
My motto's always been "Buy cheap, sell cheap".
The second part's pretty fishy.
Don't speak so ill of me.
Wh-Wh-What's going on, Kirito?
Why's a solo player like you with Asuna of all people?
Weren't you two always at odds?
Say something!
Someone got killed in a safe area?
It wasn't during a duel?
We didn't see a "Winner" notification anywhere.
If he was walking with Yolko-san beforehand,
it couldn't have been a sleep-PK either.
The setup is too complicated to have been the result of a random duel.
We can be certain that it was premeditated murder.
And then there's this.
It's player-made.
Really?
Who was the one that made it?
Grimlock.
Never heard of him...
But I do know that he's not a first-rate swordsmith.
And there's nothing particularly strange about this weapon.
Still, it should give us a clue.
Just in case, tell us the item name too.
Let's see...
It's called Guilty Thorn,
meaning "thorn of sin".
The thorn of sin...
Now then...
Wait!
Why?
Why do you think?
Are you an idiot?!
Someone's been killed by that weapon!
I know,
but we can't figure anything out without trying.
Don't bother trying something that dangerous!
This... should be left with Agil-san.
Huh? Okay...
Hey, Yolko-san.
Have you ever heard of the name "Grimlock"?
Yes.
He was a member of the guild that Caynz and I were in together.
The truth is, we appraised the spear that Caynz-san was killed with
and found that it was created by Grimlock-san.
Can you think of a reason why this might be?
Yes, I can.
I'm sorry I didn't tell you this yesterday.
I want to forget about it.
It's not something that I want to remember.
However, I'll tell you about it.
About the reason for our guild's destruction.
The name of our guild was "Golden Apple".
Six months ago,
we defeated a rare monster that we encountered
and it dropped a ring that raised one's Agility by 20 levels.
Some of us wanted to use it,
while others wanted to sell it and split the earnings, ultimately dividing the guild.
But in the end, the matter was resolved by voting.
The result was 5-3, in favor of selling it.
Our leader, Griselda-san,
left to stay overnight at a large town on the front lines
to consign the ring to an auctioneer.
But Griselda-san never came back.
Later, we discovered that she had died.
I still don't know the cause of her death.
Nobody would leave a safe area carrying such a rare item,
which means she might've been sleep-PKed.
Sleep-PKing wasn't widely known six months ago.
Still, it's hard to believe that it was a coincidence.
Whoever attacked Griselda-san must've known about the ring as well.
In other words...
One of the seven other members of Golden Apple...
The obvious suspects would be those who voted against selling the ring.
So you're saying they attacked Griselda-san
to get the ring before she consigned it?
Probably.
Who's Grimlock-san?
He was Griselda-san's husband.
Of course, it was only an in-game marriage.
Griselda-san was a very powerful swordswoman.
She had both beauty and brains.
Grimlock-san was a kind person who always had a smile on his face.
They suited each other well and were a close couple.
If Grimlock-san is the murderer from yesterday,
he must be targeting the three who wanted to use the ring.
Caynz and I were part of the three who opposed the ring's sale.
Then who's the last person?
A tank-class player called Schmitt.
Nowadays, I hear he's a part of the Divine Dragon Alliance of the clearing group.
Schmitt?
I've heard of that name before...
He's the leader of the Divine Dragon Alliance's defenders.
He's the large lance-wielder.
Oh, him.
You know Schmitt?
Well, I've only seen him during boss fights.
Could you arrange for the two of us to meet up?
He may not have heard of the incident yet.
If so, he might end up meeting the same fate as Caynz...
Let's call Schmitt-san.
I know someone in the Divine Dragon Alliance,
so if we go to their headquarters, I think I can organize a meeting.
In that case, we should escort Yolko-san to an inn first.
Yolko-san, be sure to stay inside the inn until we return.
All right.
So, how do you think the murder happened?
There are three possibilities at most.
The first is the result of a fair duel.
The second is the use of a complicated system exploit.
Well, those two are givens.
What's the third?
The use of an unknown skill that can disregard safe areas.
Perhaps in the form of an item.
On second thought, that's unlikely.
Why?
Because it's unfair.
I don't really want to admit it,
but SAO's rules are fundamentally fair.
There's no way safe area murders would be encouraged like that.
Oh...
Was the weapon that killed Caynz really made by Grimlock?
Yes.
Why did Caynz get killed after all this time?!
Was he...
Was he the one that stole the ring?
Was he the one that killed Griselda?
Is Grimlock planning to kill us for not agreeing to sell the ring?
Are we being targeted, too?
Grimlock-san was the spear's maker, but someone else could have used it.
Or maybe... Griselda-san is taking revenge.
After all, killing in a safe area
can only be done by a ghost.
I... stayed up last night thinking.
In the end, all of the guild members share responsibility in Griselda-san's death!
After we got the ring, we shouldn't have voted,
and just let Griselda-san decide on what to do with it!
Only one person...
Grimlock-san alone thought Griselda-san should decide.
That's why he has the right to avenge her...
by making us pay for her death with our lives.
Don't screw with me...
This has to be some sick joke.
After all this time...
Half a year's passed already, so why now?!
Are you just going to accept that, Yolko?
Are you fine with getting
mysteriously killed off like that?!
Yolko-san!
The far-sounding chime of a bell carried a solitary tone
tooku ni kikoeta kane no ne ga sukoshi samishikute
It rang once more, but with greater clarity and vibrance
mou ichido tsuyoku kondo wa takaku kakenuketa
Neither this ever-repeating reality nor these wishes that dot the sky
tada kurikaesu genjitsu mo hoshi no kazu no negaigoto mo
can surpass the feeling of having found meaning in tomorrow
mezasu beki asu wo mitsuketa kono omoi ni wa katenai
It's fine if the boundless world spread before me is merely a dream
me no mae ni hirakareta hatenai sekai tatoe yume demo ii
Even if it continues to waver, it always clearly resounds in my dreams
mayoi tsuzuketemo yume no oku de tsuyoku zutto zutto hibiiteku
Softly, softly shining
sotto sotto hikatteru